_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Augusto Luis Ballardini"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Short Bio
------

Augusto Luis Ballardini was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in 1984. He received his MSc and PhD degrees in Computer Science from the University of Milano - Bicocca, Italy, in 2012 and 2017, respectively. After two years of post-doctoral activities in the [IRALAB](http://www.ira.disco.unimib.it "IRALAB") research group, in 2019, he joined the [INVETT](http://invett.es "INVETT") Research Group at the Universidad de Alcalá, Spain, where he was awarded a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions research grant within the GOT ENERGY TALENT (GET-COFUND) fellowship programme. Subsequently, in 2022, he was awarded a three-year research grant under the Maria Zambrano/NextGenerationEU project of the Spanish Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities.

In 2024, the Universidad de Alcalá granted him a position as a professor (Profesor Ayudante Doctor) through the University Talent Retention Program, and he began this position in January 2025. Additionally, in 2024, he received the Acreditación Nacional para el acceso al Cuerpo de Profesor Titular de Universidad (National Accreditation for Access to the Rank of University Professor).

Since 2015, he has been an IEEE and ITS Society member. His research focuses on autonomous vehicle localization and data-fusion systems, leveraging heterogeneous data sources such as digital maps, LiDAR, and image data, along with computer vision and machine learning algorithms.

Contacts
------

Universidad de Alcalá, Alcalá de Henares (Spain) Departamento de Automática - Escuela Politécnica. Ctra. Madrid-Barcelona, Km.33,600 28871 Alcalá de Henares (Madrid) Location: Dept. Automatica, Pasillo III - E335 Email: augusto [dot] ballardini at uah [dot] es

Università degli Studi di Milano - Bicocca Dipartimento di Informatica, Sistemistica e Comunicazione Building U14 viale Sarca 336, 20126 Milano, Italy; Informatics and Robotics for Automation Lab (IRALab) Location: Room 1020 Phone: +39 02 6448 7823 Email: augusto [dot] ballardini at unimib dot it

Commit message:

Update about.md with new research position details
Added information about Ramón y Cajal research position and its significance.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Augusto Luis Ballardini"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Short Bio
------

Augusto Luis Ballardini was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in 1984. He received his MSc and PhD degrees in Computer Science from the University of Milano - Bicocca, Italy, in 2012 and 2017, respectively. After two years of post-doctoral activities in the [IRALAB](http://www.ira.disco.unimib.it "IRALAB") research group, in 2019, he joined the [INVETT](http://invett.es "INVETT") Research Group at the Universidad de Alcalá, Spain, where he was awarded a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions research grant within the GOT ENERGY TALENT (GET-COFUND) fellowship programme. Subsequently, in 2022, he was awarded a three-year research grant under the Maria Zambrano/NextGenerationEU project of the Spanish Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities.

In 2024, the Universidad de Alcalá granted him a position as a professor (Profesor Ayudante Doctor) through the University Talent Retention Program, and he began this position in January 2025. Additionally, in 2024, he received the Acreditación Nacional para el acceso al Cuerpo de Profesor Titular de Universidad (National Accreditation for Access to the Rank of University Professor).

In 2025, he was awarded a Ramón y Cajal research position by the Spanish Ministry of Science, Innovation and Universities, one of Spain's most competitive and prestigious programs for scientific excellence and talent consolidation. This recognition further strengthens his academic career in autonomous perception and navigation and reflects his commitment to high-impact research and knowledge transfer within the university environment.

Since 2015, he has been an IEEE and ITS Society member. His research focuses on autonomous vehicle localization and data-fusion systems, leveraging heterogeneous data sources such as digital maps, LiDAR, and image data, along with computer vision and machine learning algorithms.

Contacts
------

Universidad de Alcalá, Alcalá de Henares (Spain) Departamento de Automática - Escuela Politécnica. Ctra. Madrid-Barcelona, Km.33,600 28871 Alcalá de Henares (Madrid) Location: Dept. Automatica, Pasillo III - E335 Email: augusto [dot] ballardini at uah [dot] es

Università degli Studi di Milano - Bicocca Dipartimento di Informatica, Sistemistica e Comunicazione Building U14 viale Sarca 336, 20126 Milano, Italy; Informatics and Robotics for Automation Lab (IRALab) Location: Room 1020 Phone: +39 02 6448 7823 Email: augusto [dot] ballardini at unimib dot it
